Added doc for include user alias setting (#6549)
microsoft/pylance-release: docs/settings/python_analysis_includeAliasesFromUserFiles.md

This guide explains what alias symbols are, how the `python.analysis.includeAliasesFromUserFiles` setting affects them, and how you can configure Pylance to include or exclude alias symbols from user files in auto-import and add/search import features.

## What Are Alias Symbols in User Files?

In Python, alias symbols refer to symbols that are not defined in the current file but are imported from other files. By default, Pylance does not include these alias symbols when providing features like auto-imports and add import. This means that if you try to auto-import a symbol, Pylance will suggest importing it from its original source, not from another user file where it has been imported.

For example:

```python
# utils.py
def helper_function():
    pass

# __init__.py
from .utils import helper_function

# main.py
# Trying to use 'helper_function' might not prompt an auto-import suggestion 

> # from '__init__.py' unless the setting is enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# from '__init__.py' unless the `python.analysis.includeAliasesFromUserFiles` is enabled.
```

Consider the following scenario with the following project structure:

```
my_project/
├── __init__.py
├── utils.py
├── nested/
│   ├── redundant.py
│   ├── all.py
└── usage.py
```

**`utils.py`**

```python
def helper_function():
    print("This is the helper function")
```

**`__init__.py`**

```python
from .utils import helper_function
```

**`nested/redundant.py`**

```python
from ..utils import helper_function as helper_function
```

**`nested/all.py`**

```python
from my_project.utils import helper_function
__all__ = ["helper_function"]
```

**`usage.py`**

```python
from .utils import helper_function
```

When using auto-import, Pylance will choose the best alias symbol based on the following criteria, with each criterion contributing 1 point:

- The alias symbol is in an `__init__.py` file.
- The alias symbol is in a redundant form (e.g., `import helper_function as helper_function`).
- The alias symbol is listed in `__all__`.

The alias symbol with the highest score will be chosen. In case of a tie, the symbol with the shortest import module path will be selected.

> For example, the alias symbol from `usage.py` has the lowest score and will be disregarded. The alias symbols from `__init__.py`, `redundant.py`, and `all.py` each have 1 point, but the one from `__init__.py` has the shortest import module path, so it will be selected. If `__init__.py` had used `from .utils import helper_function as helper_function`, it would receive 2 points and be selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the alias symbol from `usage.py` has the lowest score and will be disregarded. The alias symbols from `__init__.py`, `redundant.py`, and `all.py` each have 1 point, but the one from `__init__.py` has the shortest import module path, so it will be selected. If `__init__.py` had used `from .utils import helper_function as helper_function` instead, it would have received 2 points and be selected.
```

### Consistent Import Paths

Enabling this setting can help maintain consistent import paths across your codebase. If you prefer to import symbols from a specific module that re-exports them (using aliases), including aliases in auto-import suggestions ensures that Pylance assists you in keeping this consistency.

## Performance Considerations

Enabling `python.analysis.includeAliasesFromUserFiles` can impact performance, especially in large codebases. Pylance may need to index more symbols and monitor more files for changes, which can increase resource usage.

When this setting is `true`, Pylance includes alias symbols from user files in its analysis, which can cause:

- Increased memory usage.

- More CPU utilization during indexing.

- Potential delays in displaying auto-import suggestions.

If you experience performance degradation after enabling this setting, you may consider:

- Keeping the setting disabled (`false`) to improve performance.

- Optimizing your codebase to reduce the number of aliases or reorganizing imports.

## Frequently Asked Questions

### Does enabling `includeAliasesFromUserFiles` affect third-party libraries?

> No, this setting only affects alias symbols defined in your user files (the code within your project). Alias symbols in third-party libraries are already included by default, as they are less likely to change frequently, there is no significant performance concern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No, this setting only affects alias symbols defined in your user files (the code within your project). Alias symbols in third-party libraries are already included by default. As they are less likely to change frequently, there is no significant performance concern.
```
